docs(root): added documentation for testing with Cypress (#324)
mi6/ic-design-system: src/content/structured/get-started/testing-with-cypress.mdx

---
path: "/get-started/test-components/testing-with-cypress"

date: "2023-02-22"

title: "Testing with Cypress"

subTitle: "How to test our components with Cypress."

navPriority: 4

contribute: "https://github.com/mi6/ic-design-system/tree/main/src/content/structured/get-started/testing-with-cypress.mdx"
---

## About Cypress

> [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) is a developer-friendly, Javascript-based front-end testing tool. It comes bundled with popular libraries like Mocha and Chai, allowing swift adoption. Advantages include snapshots at the time of test execution, allowing the user to hover specific commands to help debug and interrogate tests, implicit wait commands in test scripts, multiple browsers available to utilise in testing and real-time command execution with visual feedback.

Author: I've removed a statement and hopefully simplified it a little.

Cypress allows for End to End testing which renders a complete website, and Component testing which renders components on a development server.

## Cypress and the Shadow DOM

Cypress gives two ways in which to test `@ukic` components in the [shadow DOM](https://design.sis.gov.uk/get-started/install-components/testing-with-jest#what-is-the-shadow-dom). Firstly through calling a method `.shadow()` in the chain of assertions:

> 

Reviewer: Instead of using the words, "firstly" and "secondly", could we use options/ways as headings instead, e.g.

### Option one
Calling the `.shadow()` method in your assertion

This is to help make the content easier to read by breaking them into chunks

```js
it("has an app bar with title link", () => {
  cy.get("ic-top-navigation", { includeShadowDom: true })
    .shadow()
    .find(".title-link")
    .should("have.attr", "href", "/")
    .should("have.text", "My App Title");
});
```

> The suffix should be attached to the parent element that contains the Shadow tree, after which you can search for the element you wish to test.

Reviewer 2: be more like an instruction:
eg 
```suggestion
Attach the suffix to the parent element that contains the shadow tree.
```

not sure if the "after which....." is really needed

Secondly through adding the `includeShadowDom` rule to the `cypress.config.js`.

```js
const { defineConfig } = require("cypress");

module.exports = defineConfig({
  includeShadowDom: true,
  component: {
    devServer: {
      framework: "create-react-app",
      bundler: "webpack",
    },
  },
});
```

> This gives us the benefit of traversing the shadow DOM using assertions without having to explicitly chain the `.shadow()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows traversing the shadow DOM using assertions without having to explicitly chain the `.shadow()` method.
```

> ## Example Component tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Unit testing
```

> Below are examples of Component/Unit tests on the `@ukic/react` components `IcTextfield` and `Icbutton`. Component or Unit tests are normally located adjacent to the component they are testing and are rendered on a development server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below are examples of Component/Unit tests on the `@ukic/react` components `IcTextfield` and `IcButton`. Component or Unit tests are normally located adjacent to the component they are testing and are rendered on a development server.
```

> Below are examples of Component/Unit tests on the `@ukic/react` components `IcTextfield` and `IcButton`. Component or Unit tests are normally located adjacent to the component they are testing and are rendered on a development server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are examples of unit tests on the `@ukic/react` components `IcTextfield` and `IcButton`. Unit tests are normally located adjacent to the component they are testing and are rendered on a development server.
```

```tsx
// Textfield.tsx
import { IcTextField, IcButton } from "@ukic/react";
import React, { useState } from "react";

function Textfield() {
  const [favouriteCoffee, setFavouriteCoffee] = useState<String>("");

  const handleChange = (event) => {
    event.preventDefault();
    setFavouriteCoffee(event.detail.value);
  };

  const handleClick = () => {
    console.log("This is the best coffee going:", favouriteCoffee);
  };

  return (

>     <>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <form>
```

      <IcTextField
        label="What is your favourite coffee?"
        placeholder="Placeholder"
        helperText="Such as Arabica, Robusta or Liberica"
        onIcChange={(ev) => handleChange(ev)}
      />

      <IcButton variant="primary" onClick={() => handleClick()}>
        Send
      </IcButton>

>     </>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    </form>
```

  );
}

export default Textfield;
```

```tsx
// Textfield.cy.tsx
import React from "react";
import Textfield from "./Textfield.tsx";

describe("<Textfield />", () => {
  it("renders", () => {
    cy.mount(<Textfield />).should("have.property", "component");
  });
  it("takes a value in the textfield and prints to console when the button is clicked", () => {
    // Render the component
    cy.mount(<Textfield />);
    // Capture the log to check later
    cy.stub(window.console, "log").as("consoleLog");

    // Check the IcComponents have finished rendering
    cy.get("ic-text-field").should("have.class", "hydrated");
    cy.get("ic-button").should("have.class", "hydrated");

    // Interact with the components and provide assertions
    cy.get("#ic-text-field-input-1").type("Black");
    cy.get("ic-button").click();
    cy.get("@consoleLog").should(
      "be.calledWith",
      "This is the best coffee going:",
      "Black"
    );
  });
});
```

> ## Examples End to End testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example End to End testing
```

> ## Examples End to End testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: End-to-end testing
```

Below is an additional example for End to End tests on the same component. End to End tests normally live within the Cypress test directory and are rendered as a complete site with live interaction.

```jsx
// cypress/e2e/App.cy.js
describe("Textfield", () => {
  beforeEach(() => {
    cy.visit("http://localhost:3000/", {
      onBeforeLoad(window) {
        // Capture the log to check later
        cy.stub(window.console, "log").as("consoleLog");
      },
    });
  });

  it("should have visited the correect URL", () => {
    // Check that your App server is running
    cy.url().should("eq", "http://localhost:3000/");
  });

  it("should check the label on the IcTextfield", () => {
    // Checks the component has rendered fully
    cy.get("ic-text-field").should("have.class", "hydrated");
    cy.get("ic-button").should("have.class", "hydrated");
    cy.get("ic-text-field").should(
      "have.html",
      '<input type="hidden" class="ic-input" name="ic-text-field-input-0" value="">'
    );

    // Interact with the components

>     cy.get("#ic-text-field-input-0").type("Frappacino");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cy.get("#ic-text-field-input-0").type("Frappucino");
```

    cy.get("ic-button").click();
    cy.get("@consoleLog").should(
      "be.calledWith",
      "This is the best coffee going:",

>       "Frappacino"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "Frappucino"
```

---
path: "/get-started/test-components/testing-with-cypress"

date: "2023-02-22"

title: "Testing with Cypress"

subTitle: "How to test our components with Cypress."

navPriority: 4

contribute: "https://github.com/mi6/ic-design-system/tree/main/src/content/structured/get-started/testing-with-cypress.mdx"
---

## About Cypress

[Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) is a developer-friendly, Javascript-based front-end testing tool. It comes bundled with popular libraries like Mocha and Chai, allowing for swift adoption. Advantages include snapshots at the time of test execution, implicit wait commands, multiple browsers in which to test and real-time command execution with visual feedback.

Cypress allows for end-to-end testing which renders a complete website on a webserver, and unit testing, also known as Component testing, which renders components on a development server.

## Cypress and the Shadow DOM

Cypress gives two ways in which to test `@ukic` components in the [shadow DOM](https://design.sis.gov.uk/get-started/install-components/testing-with-jest#what-is-the-shadow-dom).

> ## Option one - local

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configuring at test level
```

> Calling the `.shadow()` method in the chain of assertions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add `includeShadowDom: true` to the `cy.get` query.
```

```js
// cypress/e2e/test.cy.js
it("has an app bar with title link", () => {
  cy.get("ic-top-navigation", { includeShadowDom: true })
    .shadow()
    .find(".title-link")
    .should("have.attr", "href", "/")
    .should("have.text", "My App Title");
});
```

> Attach the suffix to the parent element that contains the shadow tree.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows traversing the shadow DOM by chaining the `.shadow()` method.
```

> ## Option two - global

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configuring at global level
```

> Add the `includeShadowDom` rule to the `cypress.config.js`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add `includeShadowDom: true` to the `cypress.config.js`.
```

        helperText="Such as Arabica, Robusta or Liberica"
        onIcChange={(ev) => handleChange(ev)}
      />

      <IcButton variant="primary" onClick={() => handleClick()}>
        Send
      </IcButton>
    </form>
  );
}

export default Textfield;
```

```tsx
// Textfield.cy.tsx
import React from "react";
import Textfield from "./Textfield.tsx";

describe("<Textfield />", () => {
  it("renders", () => {
    cy.mount(<Textfield />).should("have.property", "component");
  });
  it("takes a value in the textfield and prints to console when the button is clicked", () => {
    // Render the component
    cy.mount(<Textfield />);
    // Capture the log to check later
    cy.stub(window.console, "log").as("consoleLog");

    // Check the IcComponents have finished rendering
    cy.get("ic-text-field").should("have.class", "hydrated");
    cy.get("ic-button").should("have.class", "hydrated");

    // Interact with the components and provide assertions
    cy.get("#ic-text-field-input-1").type("Black");
    cy.get("ic-button").click();
    cy.get("@consoleLog").should(
      "be.calledWith",
      "This is the best coffee going:",
      "Black"
    );
  });
});
```

> ## Example: Endeto-end testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example: End to-end testing
```
